# Realization of Maximally Entangling Two Qutrit Gates Using the Cross-Resonance Scheme

Superconducting transmons, often truncated to two levels for qubit operations, have an inherent multi-level energy structure that offers untapped potential for higher-dimensional quantum systems like qutrits. Three-level systems have natural advantages over their two-level counterparts in quantum information and computation. However, universal qutrit computation requires high-fidelity entangling gates spanning all three levels, which remain experimentally challenging. In our work, we present a comprehensive theoretical framework for realizing maximally entangling two-qutrit gates on fixed-frequency transmons that generalize the qubit-centric cross-resonance (CR) interaction beyond the $0-1$ subspace, leading to a generalized cross-resonance (GCR) scheme, a microwave-only technique compatible with existing hardware. We use the GCR scheme to design parametric two-qutrit gates, namely, $U_{CR}^{01}$ and $U_{CR}^{12}$, that act on the $0-1$ and $1-2$ energy transitions of transmons, respectively. These parametric gates induce state-dependent Rabi oscillations on the target qutrit’s $0-1$ and $1-2$ transitions, controlled by the state of the control qutrit. These gates are activated via amplitude-modulated Gaussian pulses with flat tops, leveraging microwave drives without requiring tunable couplers. Our gates improve upon the existing works in two aspects. First, our gates *directly* allow for entanglement on the $1-2$ levels instead of relying on the entangling ability on the $0-1$ levels to perform entanglement on the subspace spanned by $ |1\rangle $ and $|2\rangle $, as done in previous works. Second, our gates are parametric in nature, enabling us to construct multiple entangling gates of interest, while the prior works that use cross-resonance for qutrits focus on individual gates. Further, we use Qiskit Dynamics to perform a simulation-based demonstration of two-qutrit generalized controlled-$\sqrt{X}$ gates,  namely, $U_{CSX_{01}}$ and $U_{CSX_{12}}$, which are instances of proposed $U_{CR}$ gates. Numerical simulations in Qiskit Dynamics, calibrated to experimental parameters that mimic the actual backend, demonstrate a maximal concurrence of $97.2\pm0.1\%$, confirming entanglement across all three levels. A two-qutrit Bell state $|\psi\rangle = \frac{1}{\sqrt{3}}(|00\rangle + |11\rangle + |22\rangle)$ is prepared with $96.9 \pm 0.1\%$ fidelity using a 704 ns pulse sequence. We note that the complete time taken for Bell state preparation in our setup is at times less than the gate time of cross-Kerr-based entangling gates.  

This repository contains the code corresponding to the experiments that were performed as part of the paper.

Note: The repository is currently incomplete since more experiments are underway.
